Fixes for problems found when reviewing rules.md (#1736)
emqtt/emq-docs-cn: en_US/data-integration/rules.md

# Rule Engine

The Rule Engine is EMQX's built-in data processing component, which works with [data bridges](./data-bridges.md) and can be used to help extract, filter, enrich, transform and store IoT data to accelerate application integration and business innovation. 

<img src="./assets/rule-engine.png" alt="SQL-based IoT Rule Engine" style="zoom:30%;" />

> The Rule Engine is particularly useful when you need to transform or reroute incoming messages from multiple sources, for example, you can create rules that filter out irrelevant data, perform calculations, and trigger alerts or notifications based on specific events or conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Rule Engine is particularly useful when you need to transform or reroute incoming messages, for example, you can create rules that filter out irrelevant data, do transformations, and trigger alerts or notifications based on specific events or conditions.
```

> This chapter provides an in-depth exploration of the Rule Engine and its capabilities. A rule defines the data source and transformation, and then a set of actions that will be triggered every time when outputting a value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chapter provides an in-depth exploration of the Rule Engine and its capabilities. A rule defines the data source and transformation, and a set of actions that will be triggered every time the rule outputs a value.
```

> This chapter provides an in-depth exploration of the Rule Engine and its capabilities. A rule consists of an SQL statement (describing the data source and transformation) and a set of actions that will be triggered every time the SQL statement outputs a value. The "SQL functions" are functions that one can call from within the SQL statement to do data transformations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chapter provides an in-depth exploration of the Rule Engine and its capabilities. A rule defines the data source and transformation, and then a set of actions that will be triggered every time when outputting a value.
```

> ## What is the Rule Engine

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> EMQX uses a powerful SQL-based IoT rule engine for data processing and integration, where the rules are partly specified with a domain-specific SQL-like language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> <img src="./assets/rules/data-integration-arch.png" alt="image" style="zoom:40%;" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

# Rule Engine

The Rule Engine is EMQX's built-in data processing component, which works with [data bridges](./data-bridges.md) and can be used to help extract, filter, enrich, transform and store IoT data to accelerate application integration and business innovation. 

<img src="./assets/rule-engine.png" alt="SQL-based IoT Rule Engine" style="zoom:30%;" />

> The Rule Engine is particularly useful for organizations that need to process and analyze data from multiple sources, such as IoT devices or other sensor networks. By using the Rule Engine, organizations can create rules that filter out irrelevant data, perform calculations, and trigger alerts or notifications based on specific events or conditions.

Author: > organizations

I think it s better if we can avoid using the word organization. EMQX might be used by individuals as well. I think one can rephrase so one does not need to mention the type of entity that is using EMQX.

> The Rule Engine is particularly useful for organizations that need to process and analyze data from multiple sources, such as IoT devices or other sensor networks.

This sentence seems a bit meaningless to me. Practically all use cases of EMQX have to do with processing and analyzing data from multiple sources. Instead I would write something like this:

The rule engine is used to  transform and reroute incoming messages. For example, the rule engine can be used to reroute messages to a certain topic to another topic or an external service. The rule engine can also be used to filter messages and do data transformations (such as adding or removing fields).

> The Rule Engine is particularly useful for organizations that need to process and analyze data from multiple sources, such as IoT devices or other sensor networks. By using the Rule Engine, organizations can create rules that filter out irrelevant data, perform calculations, and trigger alerts or notifications based on specific events or conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Rule Engine is particularly useful when you need to transform or reroute incoming messages from multiple sources, for example, you can create rules that filter out irrelevant data, perform calculations, and trigger alerts or notifications based on specific events or conditions.
```

> This chapter provides an in-depth exploration of the Rule Engine and its capabilities. Readers will learn how the Rule Engine processes data in real time by defining rules, [using built-in SQL functions](./rule-sql-builtin-functions.md), and [customizing rules with SQL statements](./rule-sql-syntax.md). Additionally, readers will learn how to access and analyze data from multiple sources and leverage the power of [jq](./rule-sql-jq.md), a lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor that is now supported with EMQX 5.x Rule Engine. 

Author: > Readers will learn how the Rule Engine processes data in real time by defining rules, [using built-in SQL functions](./rule-sql-builtin-functions.md), and [customizing rules with SQL statements](./rule-sql-syntax.md)

Rules are not defined using SQL functions. I would say that a rule consist of an SQL statement (describing the data source and transformation) and a set of actions that will be triggered every time the SQL statement outputs a value. The "SQL functions" are functions that one can call from within the SQL statement to do data transformations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chapter provides an in-depth exploration of the Rule Engine and its capabilities. A rule consists of an SQL statement (describing the data source and transformation) and a set of actions that will be triggered every time the SQL statement outputs a value. The "SQL functions" are functions that one can call from within the SQL statement to do data transformations.

> This chapter provides an in-depth exploration of the Rule Engine and its capabilities. Readers will learn how the Rule Engine processes data in real time by defining rules, [using built-in SQL functions](./rule-sql-builtin-functions.md), and [customizing rules with SQL statements](./rule-sql-syntax.md). Additionally, readers will learn how to access and analyze data from multiple sources and leverage the power of [jq](./rule-sql-jq.md), a lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor that is now supported with EMQX 5.x Rule Engine. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chapter provides an in-depth exploration of the Rule Engine and its capabilities. Readers will learn how the Rule Engine processes data in real time by defining rules, [using built-in SQL functions](./rule-sql-builtin-functions.md), [customizing rules with SQL statements](./rule-sql-syntax.md), and performing data format transformation with [jq](./rule-sql-jq.md).
```

> ## What is Rule Engine

Author: What is Rule Engine -> What is the Rule Engine?

> ## What is Rule Engine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is the Rule Engine
```

> ## What is Rule Engine

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is the Rule Engine
```

EMQX uses a powerful SQL-based IoT rule engine for data processing and integration, where the rules are partly specified with a domain-specific SQL-like language.

> <img src="/Users/lena/Documents/GitHub/rebalancing/emqx-docs/en_US/data-integration/assets/rules/data-integration-arch.png" alt="image" style="zoom:40%;" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src="./assets/rules/data-integration-arch.png" alt="image" style="zoom:40%;" />
```

> This article discusses the composition of rules in a rule engine, which consists of data source, data transformation, and processing result destination. It also introduces the rule-engine language, which is similar to SQL and explains the different types of actions that can be taken in response to the rule engine's output. Finally, it provides some typical use cases for rules, such as action monitoring.

Author: in a rule engine -> in the rule engine

> This article discusses the composition of rules in a rule engine, which consists of data source, data transformation, and processing result destination.

This sentence is hard to read and understand.

> It also introduces the rule-engine language, which is similar to SQL and explains the different types of actions that can be taken in response to the rule engine's output. Finally, it provides some typical use cases for rules, such as action monitoring.

No, the actions are not described by the SQL language.

After the title, I think the reader would expect an explanation of what the rule engine is and not a description of what this article is about?

Author: I think I understand now that "explains" refer to the article and not the SQL-like language but I think this can be made more clearly. Perhaps breaking up the sentence to several smaller sentences would help?

> This article discusses the composition of rules in a rule engine, which consists of data source, data transformation, and processing result destination. It also introduces the rule-engine language, which is similar to SQL and explains the different types of actions that can be taken in response to the rule engine's output. Finally, it provides some typical use cases for rules, such as action monitoring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Reviewer: or maybe we can just remove this short paragraph?

> ## How It Works

Author: How It Works -> How the Rule Engine Works

> ## How It Works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How the Rule Engine Works
```

> Rules describe how to retrieve data from a **data source**, perform **data transformations**, and add subsequent actions to the processed results.

Author: and add subsequent actions to the processed results. -> and what actions that should be applied to the results.

> Rules describe how to retrieve data from a **data source**, perform **data transformations**, and add subsequent actions to the processed results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rules describe how to retrieve data from a **data source**, perform **data transformations**, and what actions should be applied to the results.
```

> <img src="/Users/lena/Documents/GitHub/rebalancing/emqx-docs/en_US/data-integration/assets/sql_process.png" alt="sql_process" style="zoom:50%;" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src="./assets/sql_process.png" alt="sql_process" style="zoom:50%;" />
```

- **Data Source**: The data source of a rule can be a message or event, or an external data system. You can use the `FROM` clause in the rule's SQL to specify the data source, and then use the `WHERE` clause to add additional constraints on which messages will be processed by the rule. 
- **Data Transformation**: Data transformations describe how to transform an input message. You can use the `SELECT` part of the SQL to extract and transform data from the input message. You can use the embedded SQL sample statements to implement advanced transformations, for example, to add a time stamp to the output message.

> - **Subsequent Actions**: After the input is processed as per the rules specified, you can continue to define one or more actions to process the SQL execution results. The Rule Engine will perform corresponding actions in sequence, such as storing the processing results in a database or republishing them to another MQTT topic.

Author: Subsequent Actions -> Actions

> - **Subsequent Actions**: After the input is processed as per the rules specified, you can continue to define one or more actions to process the SQL execution results. The Rule Engine will perform corresponding actions in sequence, such as storing the processing results in a database or republishing them to another MQTT topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Actions**: After the input is processed as per the rules specified, you can continue to define one or more actions to process the SQL execution results. The Rule Engine will perform corresponding actions in sequence, such as storing the processing results in a database or republishing them to another MQTT topic.
```

The below section introduces how to configure a rule with the Dashboard. 

## Configure with EMQX Dashboard

Log in to EMQX Dashboard, and click **Data Integration** -> **Rules** on the left navigation tree. Then click the **Create** button, and you will be directed to the **Rules** page, where you can customize your rules. Input a name for your rule and add a note to facilitate future management. 

### Data processing

Specify the data source and data processing method. 

In the SQL Editor section, input your SQL statements based on your business needs.

> For example, if you want EMQX to retrieve input messages from an MQTT topic matching the pattern `t/#` and add a new field `d` only to messages with `clientid` equal to `foo`, you can try the SQL statement below: 

Author: This does not add a new field. It renames the data field to d.

> For example, if you want EMQX to retrieve input messages from an MQTT topic matching the pattern `t/#` and add a new field `d` only to messages with `clientid` equal to `foo`, you can try the SQL statement below: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want EMQX to retrieve input messages from an MQTT topic under topic `t/#` and with `clientid` equal to `foo`, then rename the `data` field to `d`, you can try the SQL statement below: 
```

    clientid = "foo"
```

The above SQL statement specifies the following for the rule:

> - **Data source**: Messages with topic `t/#` and client ID as `foo`

Author: clientid equal to `foo`

> - **Data source**: Messages with topic `t/#` and client ID as `foo`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Data source**: Messages with topic `t/#` and client ID equals to `foo`
```

> - **Data transformation**: Extract the `data` field from the payload and assign a new field `d`. So in the above example, the output data will have the following structure `{d: "value of the payload's data field"}`.

Author: Extract the `data` field from the payload and assign a new field `d`. -> Rename the field named `data` to `d`.

> - **Data transformation**: Extract the `data` field from the payload and assign a new field `d`. So in the above example, the output data will have the following structure `{d: "value of the payload's data field"}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Data transformation**: Extract the `data` field from the payload and rename the field from `data` to `d`. So in the above example, the output data will have the following structure `{d: "value of the payload's data field"}`.
```

::: tip

> This example assumes the payload is structured data (such as JSON, avro, and protobuf), if the payload is formatted in some other way, you should convert the data type, for example, with the [jq function](./rule-sql-jq.md). 

Author: should -> can

> This example assumes the payload is structured data (such as JSON, avro, and protobuf), if the payload is formatted in some other way, you should convert the data type, for example, with the [jq function](./rule-sql-jq.md). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example assumes the payload is structured data (such as JSON, avro, and protobuf), if the payload is formatted in some other way, you can convert the data type, for example, with the [jq function](./rule-sql-jq.md). 
```

### Data Filtering

In certain scenarios, only specific types of data are relevant, and processing all incoming data may not be necessary. 

For example, in truck fleet management, vehicle sensors collect and report a large amount of operation data. However, the application platform may only be interested in data when the vehicle speed is greater than 40 km/h. 

In this case, rules can be used to filter messages conditionally and only write data that meets the conditions to a message queue. This can help optimize system performance and reduce storage requirements.

### Message Routing

Rules can also be used to route messages to different topics based on the content of the message. This allows for more fine-grained control over message distribution. 

For example, a rule can be used to route messages containing a temperature greater than 100 degrees to a topic for high-temperature alarms. This can help ensure that messages are delivered to the appropriate destination for further processing.

### Message Encoding and Decoding

> For cases where the format transform of messages is needed, rules can be used to encode and decode messages as required.

Author: the format transform of messages is needed -> the message format needs to be changes

> For cases where the format transform of messages is needed, rules can be used to encode and decode messages as required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For cases where the message format needs to be changed, rules can be used to encode and decode messages as required.
```

> For example, a rule can be used to decode a message containing binary data into a JSON format, and then forward the JSON format message to the application platform for further processing. 

Author: ", and then forward the JSON format message to the application platform for further processing." <- this can be removed

> For example, a rule can be used to decode a message containing binary data into a JSON format, and then forward the JSON format message to the application platform for further processing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, a rule can be used to decode a message containing binary data into a JSON format. 
```

:::

#### Console Output

The console output action is used to print the result message of a rule to the console or log file. 

* If EMQX is started with `emqx console`, the results will be printed to the terminal where `emqx console` was invoked.
* If EMQX is started with `emqx start`, the results will be printed to a log file (`erlang log.*`) under the `log` dir of EMQX.

The output will be in the format below

```bash
[rule action] rule_id1
    Action Data: #{key1 => val1}
    Envs: #{key1 => val1, key2 => val2}
```

Where

-  `[rule action]` is the rule ID where the republish action is triggered.
- `Action Data` is the output result of the rule, indicating the data or parameter that should be passed to the action when it is executed, that is, the payload part when you set up the republish action. 
- `Envs` is the environment variable that should be set when republishing, which could be the data source and other internal information related to the execution of this action.

::: tip
The console output action should only be used for debugging. If it is used in the production environment, it may cause performance problems.
:::

> ### Forwarding with Data Bridge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Forwarding with Data Bridge
```
